# NB Module
This is the implemented NetBlocks Module running under ns-3 framework.
This module includes custom protocol generated by NetBlocks, ns3 runtime support for the custom protocol and a switch model with iSLIP algorithm.

## Description

### Directory Structure
```
├── doc/                             # Not writeen yet
├── examples/nb-example.cc           # Almost same example as NetBlocks 
├── nb-switch-example.cc             # Switch communication example
├── helper/nb-csma-helper            # Changed from csma helper, install nodes
├── models/backoff                   # Copied from csma, used by csma channel
├── gen_headers.h                    # NetBlocks generated code 'checksum'
├── nb_data_queue.h                  # Copied NetBlocks queue support
├── nb_ns3_transport.cc              # Runtime support
├── nb_runtime                       # Runtime support
├── nb_simple.c                      # NetBlocks generated code 'checksum'
├── nb_timer                         # Timer & Redelivery support
├── nb-timer-manager                 # Timer & Redelivery support
├── nb-app                           # App layer abstraction
├── nb-app-client                    # App impl, Similar as client in NetBlocks
├── nb-app-server                    # App impl, Similar as server in NetBlocks
├── nb-stack (csma/p2p)              # Can be viewed as the driver for device
├── nb-net-device (csma/p2p)         # Device layer abstraction
├── nb-channel (csma/p2p)            # Channel layer abstraction
├── nb-switch-port-device (csma/p2p) # Port abstraction for switch model
├── nb-switch-stack (csma/p2p)       # Switch driver, implemented iSLIP algo
├── test/                            # Not writeen yet
```

### Network Stack

#### Sending stack: 
nb app -> nb_stack -> nb_simple.c -> nb-net-device -> nb-channel  
(App    |   Network device driver | Network Device | Network Channel)

Explaination:
1.App want to send packets, then ask its network device's driver, which is nbStack instance, to send.  
2.NbStack instance set global parameters (used by nb_simple.c), then call send in nb_simple.c (call the NetBlocks generated functions for custom protocol).  
3.nb_simple.c is not changed, just generated by netBlocks. However, the runtime support is changed.  
4.In nb_simple.c, send function adds protocol header, then runtime support will call nb-net-device's send function.  
5.nb device send packet to nb-channel, channel deliver packet to remote nb device.  
6.nb-net-device and nb-channel are almost same as the original ns3 net-device/channel, only removed MAC address related processes.  

#### Receiving stack: 
nb-channel -> nb-net-device -> nb_stack -> nb_simple.c -> nb app  
(Network Channel | Network device       | Network Device Driver | App)

Explanation:
1.nb-channel push packet to all device connected to it (call device's Receive function).  
2.nb-device connected to the channel takes in every packet, except those sent by itself.  
3.nb-device trigger the callback registered by upper layer's nb_stack instance. (this callback is very simple, just push the received packet to nb_stack)  
4.nb_stack set global parameters (used by nb_simple.c), then call function run_ingress_step in nb_simple.c  
5.nb_simple.c extract address information to decide whether drop the packet or not, and also may do checksum, if they are correct, then extract data and store it.  
6.After nb_simple.c store the data, nb_stack then call nb__cycle_connection to trigger callbacks registered by the uppermost layer nb_app, app may respond with sending back packet / building a signaling connection / ending the connection, etc.

### Switch Design
The switch model is based on iSLIP algorithm: http://nms.lcs.mit.edu/6829-papers/islip-ton.pdf  

NbSwitchPortDevice is used to simulate the ports of the real switch. Each NbSwitchPortDevice has a csma/point-to-point connection with another NbDevice through a NbChannel. When receiving a  packet from remote, the NbSwitchPortDevice give it to the upper-layer's NbSwitchStack to do the switch forwarding. And it will send packet to remote when NbSwitchStack calls. Notice NbP2PSwitchPortDevice communicate in full duplex way, i.e., is able to send and recieve at the same time. While NbCsmaSwitchPortDevice communicate in half duplex way, i.e., is NOT able to send and recieve at the same time.  

NbSwtichStack is used to simulate the inner processing components of the real switch. It receives packets from ports (NbSwitchPortDevice), manages the forwarding table (Address - Port mapping), uses iSLIP algorithm to arbitrate, and forward packets to corresponding output ports (NbSwitchPortDevice).  


## How to run the example
First download ns-3.44 official framework from [here](https://www.nsnam.org/releases/ns-allinone-3.44.tar.bz2)  
Open the file's folder in terminal, unzip it:
```bash
tar -xjvf ns-allinone-3.44.tar.bz2
```
Then change working directory to ns-3.44/contrib folder and clone this project:
```bash
cd ns-allinone-3.44/ns-3.44/contrib
git clone git@gitlab.doc.ic.ac.uk:yc3924/nb.git
```
Return to the ns-3.44 folder, build the project:
```bash
cd ..
./ns3 clean && ./ns3 configure --enable-examples --enable-tests && ./ns3 build
```
Wait patiently... After built, run the nb module's example by:
```bash
./ns3 run nb-csma-example
./ns3 run nb-p2p-example
./ns3 run nb-csma-switch-example
./ns3 run nb-p2p-switch-example
```